The University of Kansas Health System is a destination for world-class healthcare. People travel to us from around the world for innovative treatments and clinical trials that are often not available anywhere else.

Whether it's your first visit or a follow-up, we offer many convenient ways to make a medical appointment with a doctor, nurse or specialist. We have health system locations throughout Kansas and serve patients statewide, as well as those in Kansas City, Missouri, and beyond. From primary care, to specialty care, to urgent care, we are here to help you thrive.

At The University of Kansas Health System, we're committed to your health and safety. That's why we offer many different ways to make an appointment.

If you're ready to see a doctor, fill out the form below. You'll receive a call back from a scheduler who can help you find the right doctor and best appointment type.

If this is an urgent matter, call your provider's office directly. If it is an emergency, call 911 immediately.

Patient's first name
Enter your first name
Patient's last name
Enter your last name
Email address
Enter an email address we can use to answer your request
Phone number
e.g 800-555-1234, 8005551234, (800)555-1234
Please tell us more. How may we help you today?

Types of Appointments
At The University of Kansas Health System, we are always committed to providing efficient, convenient, high-quality care. That's why we offer a variety of doctor appointment types to meet your needs, including in-person visits and telehealth options by computer or phone.

Determining which appointment is right for you will depend on several factors, including:

Whether you are a new or established patient
New patient visits include a comprehensive exam and discussion of your full health history. These appointments may take more time.
Visits for established patients – those who have seen their provider within the last 2-3 years – may be shorter and more focused on a specific, current concern.
What your medical concern is
The severity and urgency of your condition
You and your doctor's availability
When making a doctor’s appointment, ask your scheduler which is right for you. They will help you get the appointment you need as fast as possible.

Doctor smiling
Find a doctor
Our doctors are some of the most respected in the country. And with more than 1,000 doctors spanning over 200 specialties, we have someone who's right for you. 
SEARCH DOCTORS
MyChart scheduling
In many cases, you can schedule an appointment through MyChart with your health system provider(s). Both new and existing patients can self-schedule primary care appointments and appointments for burn, spine, vascular surgery care and more. Current patients can self-schedule follow-up care for allergy, behavioral health, cardiology, eye, imaging, neonatal medicine, neurology, obstetrics and gynecology, certain pediatric specialty, rheumatology, transplant and more. Scheduling through MyChart is an excellent option for making an appointment for an annual exam or follow-up visit. You’ll even be invited to join a waitlist to be notified if an earlier appointment time becomes available.

To access online scheduling, current patients can log in to their MyChart account. Then go to menu and select Schedule an Appointment.

New patients seeking primary care appointments, go to MyChart and choose Sign Up Online under New User. Follow the prompts to create an account, and then follow the same instructions to schedule your primary care visit.

MyChart e-visit
Established patients can also use MyChart to schedule an e-visit with a primary care provider for symptoms such as:

Back pain
Birth control
Cough
Diarrhea
Headache
Heartburn
Rash
Red eye
Sinus problems
Urinary problems
Vaginal discharge
E-visits are $30 and you will need to pay by credit card when you request your appointment. This charge may be reimbursed by your insurance company. To schedule an e-visit through MyChart, select "E-Visit" from the main menu.

In-office appointment
Whether you are a new or existing patient, you can make an in-office appointment with a healthcare provider by calling 913-588-1227, or you can request a doctor's appointment online. In-person visits are recommended for certain new patients – like those seeking to establish care with a primary care provider. You can request an appointment with a specific provider or discuss your healthcare needs with a scheduler who will select a provider for you.

Doctor visiting with patient.
Prepare for your appointments
Download one of our patient visitor guides to plan ahead for your provider visit. Learn what to expect before and after your visit so that it goes as smoothly as possible. Guides are available for our campuses in Kansas City, Kansas, and Great Bend.

PLAN AHEAD
Telehealth visit
Our telehealth service options give you the flexibility to have a meaningful interaction with your provider using common devices such as a computer, a smartphone or a tablet. Telehealth visits can be used for new patients to quickly establish care, but may be followed up with an in-person appointment or for ongoing care. We offer telehealth visits for a wide variety of primary and specialty care needs.

VIDEO VISIT
TELEPHONE VISIT
MYCHART MESSAGING
This option offers two-way live communication between you and your health system provider so you can see and hear each other. This visit works best for most needs, especially when you are experiencing new symptoms that need to be evaluated. Your local provider can also use a telehealth video visit to consult with your health system provider – and may even choose to do this with you during your office visit.

Urgent care
Urgent care requires no appointment. It allows you or your family to receive care quickly for needs that are urgent – like fevers, coughs, allergies, rashes or minor injuries – but don’t require an emergency department visit.

You can receive urgent care at one of our several convenient locations or request an urgent care video visit (telehealth) through MyChart. If you don’t have a MyChart account, you can sign up for one.

Need urgent care? Call 913-574-2273 (CARE). You can also request your urgent care visit using MyChart.

Telehealth Appointments
Telehealth, sometimes referred to as telemedicine, allows you to receive care from a provider located elsewhere. You can use your computer, tablet or smartphone to communicate with a provider about primary, specialty and urgent care needs including evaluation of new symptoms, prescription refills, follow-up care and more.

We offer several types of telehealth services.

A telehealth video visit offers live communication between you and your provider and requires your device to have audio and video capability. Prior to your telehealth appointment, your care team will need to verify where you will be physically located for your appointment. If you will not be in Kansas or Missouri at the time of your visit, you need to contact your provider to confirm your appointment.
A telephone visit allows you to receive care in phone communication with your provider.
Care messaging entails communicating with your care team through the messaging center in MyChart.
You can discuss these options to find the best fit for you when you call to schedule.

An urgent care video visit by telehealth requires no appointment, but you will need a MyChart account. If you don’t already have one, sign up for one now.

Schedule your telehealth visit. Call 913-588-1227.


AN INTRODUCTION TO TELEHEALTH
How the telehealth virtual visit works
You will connect with a care provider using teleconference technology. Once connected, you'll be able to see and hear your provider just as though you were together in a traditional office visit. Based on this interaction, your provider will assess your condition and make recommendations for your ongoing care.

We believe you will enjoy the benefits of telehealth services, including efficiency, comfort and convenience.

Patient utilizing telehealth.
Prepare for your telehealth visit
Learn to prepare your computer, tablet or smartphone for a telehealth visit. And learn how to connect with your healthcare provider when your appointment time arrives.

GET STARTED
Telehealth in Kansas
A Kansas telemedicine parity law passed in the state of Kansas on May 12, 2018. The law requires private payers to cover telehealth services, but allows them to establish their reimbursement policies. The Kansas telehealth law also allows coverage for telehealth services within the state Medicaid program. In early 2020, certain federal privacy regulations and payment practices were further relaxed to promote telehealth services as safe options for important care during the COVID-19 pandemic. Kansas telehealth services provide convenience, comfort and flexibility and are growing.
University of Kansas Health System physician conducting telehealth video visit with patient
Telehealth success

Urgent care at The University of Kansas Health System gives you direct access to experts you can trust. By visiting 1 of our 4 urgent care locations throughout the Kansas City area, you have access to board-certified physicians and advanced practitioners. Plus, you'll benefit from the expertise of our imaging specialists and pathology experts, as well as leading clinical practices that only an academic medical center can provide.

Our urgent care locations in the Kansas City area, as well as our urgent care video visits, allow you to see a provider without an appointment to get the care you need. We welcome walk-in visits and offer urgent care services for people ages 6 months and older.

Ill woman on computer
Need urgent care?
Call 913-574-2273 (CARE). You can also request your urgent care visit using MyChart.

SEE CURRENT WAIT TIMES AT OUR LOCATIONS
About urgent care
Urgent care provides access to medical help when you need it for conditions that don't warrant a visit to the emergency department. A visit to one of our urgent care locations is simple as walking in the door, without an appointment, to the location most convenient for you. Urgent care also provides services not available in most traditional doctor’s offices, including X-rays, some lab work and tests such as electrocardiograms. (Please note: X-rays are temporarily unavailable at our T-Mobile Center location.)
Why choose us for urgent care
Urgent care needs aren't always limited to scrapes and sprains. Many times, urgent care requires advanced care. The doctors, nurses and clinical staff at The University of Kansas Health System are uniquely equipped to provide the highest level of care. Our urgent care locations provide you with streamlined access to the nation's best doctors when you need care most. Whether you are a current patient or simply seeking same-day service, you'll benefit from the expertise of our nationally recognized specialists.

Knee pain
Same-day care available for orthopedic injuries
We offer walk-in care for acute orthopedic injuries such as fractures, strains and sprains in Overland Park. Walk-in hours are weekdays 8 a.m.-7 p.m. and Saturdays 8 a.m.-2 p.m.

LEARN MORE

Still the best
Our hospital continues to rank as the best in Kansas City and in Kansas according to U.S. News & World Report.
Shield 
Magnet-recognized
The University of Kansas Hospital has been designated a Magnet® facility by the American Nurses Credentialing Center since 2006.
Shield 
Respect for all people
Named a leader in LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality by the Human Rights Campaign.
Urgent care services
It's important that you choose the right care at the right time. Seek urgent care when you need treatment quickly, but your provider is not available.

USE URGENT CARE FOR

Acute back pain or injury
Allergic reactions
Animal or insect bites
Asthma
Bad colds or flu
Cuts requiring stitches
Earaches
Eye infections or irritations
Mild fevers
Minor burns
Nausea, vomiting and diarrhea
Rashes
Sore throats
Sprains or strains
Suspected broken bones
Urinary problems

DO NOT USE URGENT CARE FOR
Urgent care visits are not able to handle serious symptoms, like:

Any symptoms that make it impossible to walk, breathe or perform other basic functions
Bleeding that won't stop
Chest pain
Difficulty breathing
Fevers in babies 3 months old or younger
Loss of consciousness
Pregnancy issues
Seizures
Serious head injury
Severe allergic reactions that include face swelling or itching throat
Severe pain
Throwing up or coughing up blood
These serious symptoms need immediate attention and may indicate life-threatening conditions. In these instances, you need to seek emergency services.


Second Opinion Services
When you're facing a medical diagnosis, a second opinion can give you the reassurance you need by confirming that your original diagnosis was correct. It may also reveal new information about your condition, or present alternate treatment approaches.

A second opinion doesn't mean that you don't trust your doctor. At The University of Kansas Health System, we provide second opinion services for anyone who wants to better understand the treatment options available to them. In many cases, our doctors and specialists can work directly with your primary care physician to ensure that you receive coordinated care that offers the best possible outcome.

Scheduling a second opinion appointment
You or your doctor can schedule a second opinion. When you call to schedule a second opinion appointment, you'll need to be prepared to provide your diagnosis and indicate why you want a second opinion. You will also need to provide:

Contact information (name, address and phone number)
Date of birth
Physician's name
Medical insurance and ID number
After making the request, a nurse will contact you within 24 business hours to schedule your second opinion appointment. Our nurse will answer your questions and schedule your appointment with a specialist appropriate for your condition. The nurse will also tell you which medical records to bring and ask detailed questions regarding your:

Diagnosis
Previous diagnostic testing
Previous treatment
We always strive to meet your needs. Please tell us if you've been advised to have surgery so we can schedule your appointment for the earliest date possible.

At your second opinion appointment
Our physician will review your records and provide a thorough physical exam. After the exam, the physician will discuss your options, make recommendations for your care and answer any questions you may have about your condition and diagnosis.

Expert second opinion consultations
Because The University of Kansas Health System is an academic medical center, specialists are often located across the hall instead of across town. Our physician may consult with experts from different specialties throughout the health system. You may not personally meet some of these physicians, but you will still benefit from their expertise in reviewing your case.

Prompt communication
We will communicate promptly with your referring physician to ensure that everyone involved in your care works together to offer you the best possible outcome.

Patient visiting with doctor.
Are you facing a cancer diagnosis?
We offer second opinion services at The University of Kansas Cancer Center – 1 of fewer than 60 National Cancer Institute-designated comprehensive cancer centers nationwide.

LEARN MORE
Getting a second opinion can give you confidence in your diagnosis and treatment plan. Call 913-588-1227 for a second opinion.

