The University of Kansas Health System is dedicated to caring for you. We are also here to help ensure you understand billing, insurance policies and financial assistance options so you can focus on what matters most: getting better.

In this section, you'll find information about our billing and insurance policies for patient hospital stays, procedures and doctor appointments.

Explore billing, insurance and financial assistance
Patient bills
Pay your bill, read our payment policy, get FAQs and more.

Insurance coverage
See if you’re covered and learn about Medicare or Medicaid.

Financial assistance
Find out if you're eligible for our financial assistance program.

Cost planning
Explore care costs with a counselor or use our price estimator tool.

Woman using computer.
Pay your bill on MyChart
MyChart allows you to quickly and securely pay your medical bill online. You can also communicate with your doctor, order prescriptions and more.

SIGN UP NOW
Estimate costs in advance
We offer a self-service price estimate tool to help you understand costs before you plan or receive healthcare services. For a variety of common tests and procedures – with more to come – you can perform an online estimate to learn the amounts your insurance will cover and the out-of-pocket costs you’ll be responsible for.

If you’re a health system patient with a MyChart account, you can use our self-service, online price estimate tool in MyChart. Log in to MyChart. Go to Billing and choose Estimates.

If you are new to the health system or don’t have a MyChart account, you can explore the estimate tool as a MyChart guest user.

Your health is our priority, and we understand that medical billing can be confusing. Our goal is to make your complete experience as simple, clear and effective as possible.

Our representatives are here to help. Call 913-588-7850 to speak with a financial counselor.

Understand the cost of care
It can be challenging to understand the cost of healthcare up front. But there are resources to support you. First, you can always contact your insurance carrier directly to understand your coverage. Second, try our price estimate tool available within MyChart and accessible to both MyChart users and guests. It captures and shares expected costs for a variety of common healthcare needs and takes into account many specific insurance plans. And finally, our financial advisors are always happy to help you. In Kansas City, call 913-588-7850 or email FinancialCounselor@KUMC.edu. In Great Bend, call 620-791-5054 or email GBC-FinancialCounselor@KUMC.edu.

If you're having difficulty paying your bill at this time, we can help. Contact us Monday-Friday, 7:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m., at 913-588-5820 or 877-287-6268.

Woman on laptop
Convenient payments with CommerceCare™
Commerce Bank has partnered with The University of Kansas Health System to bring you CommerceCare™, a fast, flexible and patient-friendly extended financing solution. With CommerceCare™, you can get many of the elective care services you want now and pay over time. CommerceCare™ offers two convenient plans so you can choose the option that works best for you.



Your bill from The University of Kansas Health System may reflect charges from the hospital, as well as many of its physicians. This includes:

The University of Kansas Health System
The University of Kansas Cancer Center
The University of Kansas Physicians
Our goal is to make it easier for patients to see and understand all charges related to each episode of care. You may pay your health system bill online, by phone, by mail or in person.

PAYMENT BY PHONE
Phone: 913-588-5820
Toll-free: 877-287-6268
Hours: Monday-Friday, 7:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m.

PAYMENT BY MAIL
The University of Kansas Health System
P.O. Box 955801
St. Louis, MO 63195-5801

PAYMENT IN PERSON
The University of Kansas Hospital
4000 Cambridge St.
Kansas City, KS 66160

Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.

Visit our cash office in Admissions. It is located in the main lobby across from the information desk.

PAYMENT ONLINE
Paying your bill online is fast and easy. You can pay your bill online through MyChart or through our website payment portal. We accept debit cards and all major credit cards, including American Express®, Discover®, MasterCard® and Visa®. We also accept Apple Pay and Google Pay in MyChart.

If you have a MyChart account, you will automatically receive paperless billing statements in MyChart.

Paperless billing
Goodbye, mailbox. Hello, inbox! With a MyChart account, you can conveniently view and pay your bills online anytime, anywhere.

As of August 13, 2021, people with a MyChart account will automatically begin receiving paperless billing statements and no longer receive paper statements.

No MyChart account? No problem. Simply sign up for a MyChart account. Or call 913-588-4040 for assistance.

Already have an account but want to continue receiving paper billing statements? Log in to your MyChart account and select Billing Summary from the Menu. Then click on the “cancel paperless billing” link below your statement.

Patient bill refund policy
If we owe you a refund due to an overpayment or credit balance, we will issue a refund after it has been verified by patient financial services. We will credit your credit card or send you a check, depending on how you made the initial payment. For any questions concerning a refund due, call patient financial services at 913-588-5820 or toll-free 877-287-6268.


Pediatrics
Plastic Surgery
Psychology
Rehabilitation medicine
Rheumatology
Sleep medicine
Spine care (Marc A. Asher, MD, Comprehensive Spine Center)
Surgery
Transplantation
Truman Sports Complex
Orthopedics
Sports medicine
Village Office Center, Prairie Village
Allergy
Family medicine
Pediatrics
Westwood Medical Pavilion
Internal medicine
WHAT WILL CHANGE ON MY STATEMENT, OR IN THE AMOUNT I PAY?
In many cases, you will begin seeing a statement with hospital and professional charges for each visit. Depending on your specific insurance coverage, some patients notice a change in their out-of-pocket charge because a portion of the billed service is being charged as a hospital charge. Any change in your financial responsibility is a result of your specific health plan’s coinsurance and deductible, rather than a change in the total charges. The total charges associated with your services will be the same, regardless of your insurance coverage.

Medicare beneficiaries are responsible for the coinsurance amount on the services received. These amounts are determined by Medicare and are based on the services performed. Most Medicare patients may be covered by their supplemental insurance and will not have to pay more out-of-pocket.

ARE ALL PATIENTS BEING BILLED THIS WAY?
The requirement for breaking out charges for each office visit was set by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, so patients with Medicare or Medicare Advantage are billed using PBB. Patients with other insurance should check with their insurance provider to understand how this billing model may impact them.

QUESTIONS?
We recommend you first review your insurance benefits, then contact your insurance provider to determine any changes to what your policy will cover. In addition, we have trained customer service representatives who can help answer your questions Monday-Friday, 7:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m. To reach a representative, call 913-588-5820 or 877-287-6268 (toll-free).

You may also ask questions via MyChart through the Messaging function (Ask a Question/Customer Service Question).

Payment Policy
The University of Kansas Physicians requires that you pay your copay and/or coinsurance at the time of service, as outlined by your insurance coverage.

The University of Kansas Health System requests a $50 deposit prior to service, either by a phone call with a representative from The University of Kansas Health System or upon arriving at the facility for registration.

We understand that our policy to collect money up front may be confusing for those who have not had to pay prior to service when they have previously visited our facilities. These deposits are payments made toward your total expenses. Below, you'll find answers to some commonly asked questions that we hope you will find helpful.

Please note that no person is denied urgent/emergent care based on their ability to pay at the time of service.

The University of Kansas Health System does not discriminate based on ability to pay.

Our counselors can help determine if you qualify for financial assistance. Call 913-588-7850.

Point-of-service payment policy FAQ
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A DEPOSIT, COPAYMENT, COINSURANCE, A DEDUCTIBLE AND AN OUT-OF-POCKET MAXIMUM?
Deposit

A standard amount requested from patients prior to or at the point of service. This amount will go toward a patient's total out-of-pocket costs. Should there be a discrepancy, our policy is to refund any overpayment.

Copayment (copay)

A fixed amount that is requested for covered medical services at the time service is received. Example: $50 payment due for each visit to the health system's Emergency Department.

Coinsurance

This refers to the sharing of covered medical expenses.

Deductible

The part of a patient's covered medical expenses that the individual pays each calendar year before the insurance company starts to pay benefits.

Out-of-pocket maximum

A predetermined, limited amount of money that an individual must pay directly before an insurance company or self-insured employer will pay 100% for an individual's healthcare expenses.

WHY IS THERE A DEPOSIT?
The University of Kansas Health System wants to help inform and educate patients regarding their financial liability. This will help patients better understand and plan for their potential expenses in the future and will be applied toward the total expenses incurred for services. The patient will be billed for remaining balances left after insurance pays.

WHAT ARE MY PAYMENT OPTIONS?
The health system accepts checks, credit cards and cash.

WHAT IF I PREFER NOT TO PAY ON THE DATE OF MY VISIT?
Many patients find it more convenient to pay before the date of their visit. A patient has the option to pay the deposit by phone prior to their appointment. Otherwise, payment is requested upon registration.

WHAT IF I DON'T HAVE INSURANCE OR AM UNABLE TO PAY MY BALANCE AFTER INSURANCE?
Financial assistance is part of the community service provided by The University of Kansas Health System. For those who are unable to pay for necessary medical services, every effort will be made to assist you in obtaining help for payment of your medical bills.

For a patient who may have difficulties with payment for any portion of care, we have the following policies and programs:

Payment plans: Patients may pay for services in monthly increments over a period of time.
Financial assistance programs: There are programs for patients who are not deemed eligible for state/federal assistance, yet do not have adequate financial resources. After completing a financial evaluation, you may be eligible for financial assistance for services provided to you by The University of Kansas Health System.
Please contact our financial counseling office at 913-588-7850 if you feel you may qualify for financial assistance.

Emergency Department payment policy
The University of Kansas Health System requests patients pay their Emergency Department copays. If insurance information is absent or unavailable, a $50 deposit is requested.

Please note that no one is denied urgent/emergent care based on their ability to pay at the time of service.

Emergency Department payment policy FAQs
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A DEPOSIT, COPAYMENT, COINSURANCE, A DEDUCTIBLE AND AN OUT-OF-POCKET MAXIMUM?
Deposit

A standard amount requested from patients prior to or at the point of service. This amount will go toward a patient's total out-of-pocket costs. Should there be a discrepancy, our policy is to refund any overpayment.

Copayment (copay)

A fixed amount that is requested for covered medical services at the time service is received. Example: $50 payment due for each visit to the health system's Emergency Department.

Coinsurance

This refers to the sharing of covered medical expenses.

Deductible

The part of a patient's covered medical expenses that the individual pays each calendar year before the insurance company starts to pay benefits.

Out-of-pocket maximum

A predetermined, limited amount of money that an individual must pay directly before an insurance company or self-insured employer will pay 100% for an individual's healthcare expenses.

WHY IS THERE A COPAY/DEPOSIT?
The University of Kansas Health System wants to help inform and educate patients regarding their financial liability. This will help patients better understand and plan for their potential expenses in the future and will be applied toward the total expenses incurred for services. The patient will be billed for remaining balances left after insurance pays.

WHAT ARE MY PAYMENT OPTIONS?
The health system accepts checks, credit cards and cash.

WHAT IF I AM AN UNINSURED, SELF-PAY PATIENT – WILL I QUALIFY FOR A DISCOUNT?
Yes, uninsured patients qualify for a 70% discount for hospital services and/or a 40% discount for physician services. Please contact patient financial customer services at 913-588-5820 or 877-287-6268 for more information.

WHAT IF I AM UNABLE TO PAY MY BALANCE?
Financial assistance is part of the community service provided by The University of Kansas Health System. For those who are unable to pay for necessary medical services, every effort will be made to assist you in obtaining help for payment of your medical bills.

For a patient who may have difficulties with payment for any portion of care, we have the following policies and programs:

Payment plans: Patients may pay for services in monthly increments over a period of time.
Financial assistance programs: There are programs for patients who are not deemed eligible for state/federal assistance, yet do not have adequate financial resources. After completing a financial evaluation, you may be eligible for financial assistance for services provided to you by The University of Kansas Health System.
Please contact our financial counseling office at 913-588-7850 if you feel you may qualify for financial assistance.

No Surprise Billing
Our patient-centered approach reaches every part of your health-system experience, including your medical billing. We are here to help you understand your expected medical bill.

Concerns about your bill? Contact us: 1-877-287-6268

CMS and your billing rights
Gain a better understanding of no surprise billing when you read Your Rights and Protections Against Surprise Medical Bills.

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) requires all hospitals to share this document. We want you to be empowered with as much information as possible when making healthcare choices and budgeting care. You may use this document to become more informed.

Good Faith Estimate
Don’t have insurance or are not using insurance? You have the right to a Good Faith Estimate explaining how much your medical care will cost.

Speaker 1:
It's common to feel anxiety about healthcare cost. To ease those concerns, let's break down how health insurance works so you can focus on your care, and so there are fewer surprises when the bill comes. In general, health insurance pays for some of your care and you pay for a portion as well. For instance, if you have an office visit for, let's say, foot pain, you may be responsible for a copay. This is a fee set by your insurance company that helps cover the visit. The copay may not cover additional tests, such as blood work or x-rays. Usually, whether you pay for these additional services yourself out-of-pocket depends on whether you've met your annual deductible. That's the total amount you must pay for healthcare in a given year before your insurance begins to pay. If you've met your deductible, you'll pay a portion or a percentage of the additional cost.

This is a predetermined rate called coinsurance. The ratio may be, for example, 80/20 or 70/30, with you paying the lower percentage and the insurance paying the higher amount. If your doctor suggests surgery, you'll want to know the cost up front. First, make sure the surgery provider and the location are in your network. Consult your insurance company's website or your care team to confirm. If they're not in-network, you may pay more to see this provider at this location or be required to choose options within your network. As a general rule, all healthcare services are more affordable for the patient when performed in-network. On the MyChart app, use our cost-estimate features. This tool is key to providing no-surprise billing, which is your right and the right thing to do. The estimator asks for the location where you'll have the surgery and your insurance plan.

It then gives you a good faith estimate of the cost. You can also call our patient financial services counselors who can answer your questions. After receiving your care, you may get a bill by mail or in your MyChart patient portal. It will break down the charges from your doctor in the hospital and will specify what you pay and what the insurance company pays. You can pay your bill online, by phone, by mail, or in person. We're committed to making the financial and payment process as simple as possible so you can focus on the most important thing, getting well and staying well.

Services and Fees
We know that healthcare services can be expensive, but it’s important to get the care that keeps you at your healthiest. In fact, over the long term, it can be more costly to delay care rather than plan it. We are here to help you understand care costs to make informed decisions specific to your needs and insurance coverage.

One way to begin understanding care costs is to use our self-service price estimator tool. For many common tests and procedures – and more to come – you can determine the cost of care your insurance will cover and better understand your out-of-pocket responsibilities.

We also offer financial counselors. We’re always happy to talk with you personally. If you are a patient or caregiver for a patient at The University of Kansas Health System and would like to discuss an estimate for care, call us Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. at 913-588-7850. A trained counselor will answer your questions and make sure you understand the most realistic payments associated with your procedure – so you can focus on your health.

Woman researching
Estimate your cost of care
Planning for healthcare services? Use our convenient price estimator tool to better understand your insurance coverage and out-of-pocket costs.

ESTIMATE COSTS
Understanding costs for care can be complicated. Let us help with an estimate. 913-588-7850

Price transparency
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services require all hospitals to publish their charge description master. Learn more here.

Insurance Coverage
If you are enrolled in a managed care plan (HMO, PPO or POS), your treatment at The University of Kansas Health System in Kansas City may be covered by insurance. To verify whether you're eligible for treatment at our health system, follow these tips.

Before scheduling an initial appointment, call your health plan/insurance company and ask if you have access to our services.
We encourage you to refer to questions to ask your insurance company when speaking to your insurance provider.
If The University of Kansas Health System is not a participating provider in your plan, you may still be able to receive treatment here. Your insurance company may help with obtaining authorization. It is important to note that some benefit plans use what are referred to as "narrow" or "limited" networks. That means they narrow or limit the choices of doctors and hospitals that their customers can use. Additionally, some plans, such as HMOs, have primary care physician referral and/or other authorization guidelines. If you have an HMO insurance plan, please let us know when you schedule appointments. It may be necessary to plan your appointments at specific locations to ensure your fees are covered.

To make sure we are the best fit for your healthcare needs, speak with your insurance company.

Once you have verified The University of Kansas Health System is within your insurance network, patient access specialists will work with you to ensure you receive the full benefit from your insurance company by:

Answering your questions about insurance verification and/or prepayment requirement
Responding to insurer requests for additional medical information
DISCLAIMER: The University of Kansas Health System's participation with any product or insurance plan is subject to change without notice. Additionally, insurance companies offer a variety of plans and may change the names and benefits at any point. Your level of coverage depends on the specific benefits outlined in your plan.

To ensure that The University of Kansas Health System and its physicians and other providers are in-network, it is your responsibility to verify that The University of Kansas Health System is a participating provider and your benefit plan allows you access the day of a visit and/or admission. Contact your insurance plan to obtain this information.

Are you covered by health insurance?
If you're choosing a health insurance plan at work or on your own, you may want to check the networks. Most plans offer the best coverage for doctors and hospitals that are in their networks.

That means you'll want to find each health plan's network list and search for your doctors, other providers and The University of Kansas Health System.

Networks change from year to year, so be sure to check, even if you plan to stay in the same plan you had last year.

Note: Medicare annual wellness visits can be scheduled once every 12 months. Check with your insurance carrier to determine when you are next eligible for these visits before scheduling. Well-child checks are also covered according to specific schedules. Check with your insurance carrier to determine when your child is next eligible for these visits before you schedule.

Enroll 365 can help you choose a plan.

888-611-3816

Major managed care plans
AETNA
Commercial HMP/POS and PPO products; commercial behavioral health product
AETNA BETTER HEALTH OF KANSAS
KanCare HMO (Kansas Medicaid); KanCare HMO behavioral health (Kansas Medicaid)
AETNA CARELINK
Coverage for members in Missouri only
AETNA MEDICARE
Medicare Advantage HMO and PPO products (includes legacy Coventry Medicare Advantage products)
AMBETTER FROM SUNFLOWER HEALTH PLAN (KS)
Health Insurance Marketplace HMO product
AMBETTER FROM HOME STATE HEALTH (MO)
Health Insurance Marketplace HMO product
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF KANSAS
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products including: Premier Blue; Blue Choice; Solutions (not available for residents of Wyandotte and Johnson counties in Kansas). Services provided at our ambulatory surgery center at KU MedWest are not covered.
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF KANSAS CITY
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products including: Blue Access (PPO); Blue Advantage (HMO); Blue Care (HMO); Blue Select Plus (PPO); Preferred Care (PPO); Preferred Care Blue (PPO); traditional/indemnity and commercial behavioral health product
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF KANSAS CITY MEDICARE ADVANTAGE
Medicare Advantage HMO and PPO product
CENPATICO BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
KanCare – Sunflower State Health Plan (Kansas Medicaid); MO HealthNet – Home State Health Plan (Missouri Medicaid)
CIGNA-HEALTH SPRINGS
Medicare Advantage HMO product
CIGNA HEALTHCARE
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products
COVENTRY HEALTH CARE
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products; commercial behavioral health product
FIRST HEALTH (A COVENTRY HEALTH CARE COMPANY)
Commercial PPO leased network
FREEDOM NETWORK
Commercial PPO leased network by preferred health professionals (PHP)
FREEDOM NETWORK SELECT
Commercial PPO leased network by preferred health professionals (PHP)
GREAT WEST HEALTHCARE (A CIGNA HEALTHCARE COMPANY)
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products
HUMANA
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products
HUMANA BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products; commercial HMOx/POSx and PPOx products; Medicare Advantage HMO/POS and PPO products
HUMANA MEDICARE ADVANTAGE
Medicare Advantage HMO and PPO products
HUMANA MEDICARE COMMUNITY HEALTH PLAN
MEDICAID KANSAS TRADITIONAL
Medicaid traditional
MEDICARE
Medicare traditional
MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PFFS PRODUCTS
Medicare PFFS
MEDICARE SUPPLEMENTAL (OFFERED BY PAYERS UNDER DIFFERENT NAMES)
Medicare supplement plans
Mental Health Associates (MHNet)
Commercial behavioral health product; MO Health Net – Healthcare USA (Missouri Medicaid)
MULTIPLAN
Commercial PPO product (complementary network)
NEW DIRECTIONS BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
Commercial behavioral health HMO product
OPTUMHEALTH BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
KanCare – UnitedHealthcare community plan (Kansas Medicaid); commercial behavioral health products
OSCAR
Commercial product for Kansas residents who live in Wyandotte or Johnson counties and Missouri residents who live in Clay, Jackson or Platte counties
PREFERRED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS (PHP)
Commercial PPO product
Preferred Health Systems (a Coventry Health Care company)
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products including: Preferred Health Care Network and Preferred Plus of Kansas
PRIVATE HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS (PHCS) (A MULTIPLAN COMPANY)
Commercial PPO product (complementary network)
SUNFLOWER STATE HEALTH PLAN
KanCare HMO (Kansas Medicaid)
SUNFLOWER WELLCARE
HMO and PPO products
TRICARE (HEALTHNET)
HMO and PPO products
UHC (UNITED HEALTHCARE) EXCHANGE PLAN
An ACA marketplace plan
UNITEDHEALTHCARE
Commercial HMO/POS and PPO products
UNITEDHEALTHCARE COMMUNITY PLAN
KanCare HMO (Kansas Medicaid)
UNITEDHEALTHCARE MEDICARE ADVANTAGE
Me

Health Insurance Marketplace
You can find answers to questions about the Healthcare Insurance Marketplace for all states online at healthcare.gov. If you need specific information about coverage available in Kansas or Missouri, call 800-318-2596.

Health Insurance Marketplace FAQ
WHAT IS THE HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE?
The marketplace is an online portal where you can shop for health insurance plans that fit your or your family's needs. You can compare plans based on price, benefits, quality and other features important to you before you decide which plan to purchase.

WHAT IS THE MARKETPLACE IN MY STATE?
If you live in Kansas or Missouri, visit healthcare.gov for the Health Insurance Marketplace.

IS THERE A PHONE NUMBER I CAN CALL?
Kansas and Missouri residents can call toll-free 800-318-2596. Representatives are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to assist you.

WHO QUALIFIES FOR THE MARKETPLACE?
Most people will be eligible for health coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace. To be eligible for health coverage through the marketplace, you:

Must live in the United States
Must be a United States citizen or have a qualifying immigration status
Can't be currently incarcerated
WHY SHOULD I HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE?
Having health coverage can help protect you from potentially high costs associated with healthcare. Insurance coverage protects you from high medical costs 2 ways:

Out-of-pocket maximum: This is the total amount you'll have to pay if you get sick. For example, if your plan has a $3,000 out-of-pocket maximum, once you pay $3,000 in deductibles, coinsurance and copayments, the plan will pay for any covered care above that amount for the rest of the year.
No yearly or lifetime limits: Health plans in the marketplace can't put dollar limits on how much they will spend each year or over your lifetime to cover essential health benefits. After you've reached your out-of-pocket maximum, your insurance company must pay for all of your covered medical care with no limit.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE HEALTH PLANS AND OTHER PRIVATE PLANS?
No matter how you buy your health insurance – through the marketplace, directly from an insurance company or with the help of an agent or broker – all plans for individuals and small groups must cover the same set of essential health benefits. These benefits include certain doctor visits, hospital stays, preventive services, prescription drugs, mental health and other categories of coverage.

Plans will not be able to charge you more or refuse to cover you if you have a preexisting condition.

Most plans also must offer the consumer rights and protections provided under the healthcare law. When you apply for marketplace coverage, you'll find out whether you qualify for lower costs on your premiums or out-of-pocket costs. These savings are based on your household income and size. An individual making up to about $45,000, or a family of four making up to about $94,000, may qualify for these lower costs.

WILL I QUALIFY FOR LOWER OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS?
The marketplace cost-sharing reduction lowers the amount you have to pay for out-of-pocket costs like deductibles, coinsurance and copayments. These are costs you have to pay when you get care. Savings are based on your income and family size.

WHAT IF I HAVE A PREEXISTING HEALTH CONDITION?
Being sick won't keep you from getting health coverage. An insurance company can't turn you down or charge you more because of your condition. Once you have insurance, it can't refuse to cover treatment for preexisting conditions. Coverage for your preexisting conditions begins immediately. This is true even if you have been turned down or refused coverage due to a preexisting condition in the past.

The only exception is for grandfathered individual health insurance plans – the kind you buy yourself, not through an employer. They do not have to cover preexisting conditions.

If you have one of these plans, you can switch to a marketplace plan during open enrollment and immediately get coverage for your preexisting conditions.

WHAT ARE MY HEALTH COVERAGE OPTIONS IF I'M UNEMPLOYED?
If you're unemployed, you may qualify for Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program or lower costs on Health Insurance Marketplace plans based on your income.

Your household size and income, not your employment status, will determine what health coverage options you're eligible for and how much help you get paying for coverage. When you apply for marketplace coverage, you will report your current income and estimate your income.

CAN I KEEP MY DOCTOR?
Most health insurance plans offered in the marketplace have networks of hospitals, doctors, specialists, pharmacies and other healthcare providers. Networks include healthcare providers that the plan contracts with to take care of the plan's members. Depending on the type of policy you buy, care may be covered only when you get it from a network provider.

When comparing plans in the marketplace, you will see a link to a list of providers in each plan's network. If staying with your current doctor is important to you, check to see if they are included before choosing a plan.

WHAT DO I NEED TO DO BEFORE I SIGN UP ON THE HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE?
Learn about the different types of health coverage. Through the marketplace, you'll be able to choose a health plan that gives you the right balance of costs and coverage. You can be better prepared if you understand the types of coverage you'll choose from.

Make a list of questions you have before it's time to choose your health plan.
Make sure you understand how coverage works, including things like premiums, deductibles, out-of-pocket maximums, copayments and coinsurance. You'll want to consider these details while you're looking for health insurance.
Gather basic information about your household income. Most people using the marketplace will qualify for lower costs on monthly premiums or out-of-pocket costs. To find out how much savings you're eligible for, you'll need income information, like the kind you get on your W-2, current pay stubs or your tax return.
Set your budget. There will be different types of health plans to meet a variety of needs and budgets. You'll need to figure out how much you want to spend on premiums each month.
Ask your employer if the company plans to offer health insurance. If not, you may need to get insurance through the marketplace or from other sources. If you don't have coverage, you may have to pay a fee.
Explore current options. You may be able to get help with getting coverage now through existing programs. Learn more about health insurance for children up to age 26, and programs for people and children in families with limited incomes, like Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program. Medicare covers people who are 65 and older or who have certain disabilities.
Find out which marketplace will serve you. If your state has its own health insurance website, use it to compare your options and enroll in coverage. If your state doesn't have a health insurance website, use healthcare.gov.
IF I RECEIVE MY COVERAGE FROM MY SPOUSE'S EMPLOYER, WILL I HAVE MINIMUM ESSENTIAL COVERAGE?
Yes. Employer-sponsored coverage is generally minimum essential coverage. If an employee enrolls in employer-sponsored coverage for themselves and their family, the employee and all the covered family members have minimum essential coverage.

DO MY SPOUSE AND DEPENDENT CHILDREN HAVE TO BE COVERED UNDER THE SAME POLICY OR PLAN THAT COVERS ME?
No. You, your spouse and your dependent children do not have to be covered under the same policy or plan. However, you, your spouse and each dependent child for whom you may claim a personal exemption on your federal income tax return must have minimum essential coverage or qualify for an exemption, or you will owe a payment when you file.

MY EMPLOYER TELLS ME THAT OUR COMPANY'S HEALTH PLAN IS GRANDFATHERED. DOES MY EMPLOYER'S PLAN PROVIDE MINIMUM ESSENTIAL COVERAGE?
Yes. Grandfathered group health plans provide minimum essential coverage.

I AM A RETIREE, AND I AM TOO YOUNG TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICARE. I RECEIVE MY HEALTH COVERAGE THROUGH A RETIREE PLAN MADE AVAILABLE BY MY FORMER EMPLOYER. IS THE RETIREE PLAN MINIMUM ESSENTIAL COVERAGE?
Yes. Retiree health plans are generally minimum essential coverage.

I WORK FOR A LOCAL GOVERNMENT THAT PROVIDES ME WITH HEALTH COVERAGE. IS MY COVERAGE MINIMUM ESSENTIAL COVERAGE?
Yes. Employer-sponsored coverage is minimum essential coverage regardless of whether the employer is a governmental, nonprofit or for-profit entity.

DO I HAVE TO BE COVERED FOR AN ENTIRE CALENDAR MONTH TO GET CREDIT FOR HAVING MINIMUM ESSENTIAL COVERAGE FOR THAT MONTH?
No. You will be treated as having minimum essential coverage for a month as long as you have coverage for at least one day during that month.

IF I CHANGE HEALTH COVERAGE DURING THE YEAR AND END UP WITH A GAP WHEN I AM NOT COVERED, WILL I OWE A PAYMENT?
Individuals are treated as having minimum essential coverage for a calendar month if you have coverage for at least one day during that month. Additionally, as long as the gap in coverage is less than three months, you may qualify for an exemption and not owe a payment.

Enroll 365 can help you choose a plan.

888-611-3816

Medicare and Medicaid
Medicare is the federal health insurance program for people aged 65 or older and certain younger people with disabilities.

Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that helps pay medical costs for people with limited income who meet certain eligibility criteria. Medicaid also offers financial assistance for nursing home and personal care services. Every state has different rules for Medicaid.

Our financial counselors can help with cost or pricing estimates. Call 913-588-7850.

Medicare
MEDICARE PART A
Hospital insurance. Medicare Part A covers hospital stays, hospice care, skilled nursing facilities and some home healthcare. Accepted at The University of Kansas Health System.
MEDICARE PART B
Medical insurance. Medicare Part B covers doctor visits, preventive care and screening and medical supplies. Accepted at The University of Kansas Health System.
MEDICARE PART C
Also known as the Medicare Advantage plan, Medicare Part C replaces traditional Medicare. Contact your plan to determine if they will work with The University of Kansas Health System.
MEDICARE SUPPLEMENTAL
Also known as MediGap, Medicare supplemental policies allow employees to see any provider that accepts Medicare. Contact your plan to determine if they will work with The University of Kansas Health System.
Medicaid – KanCare Program
The KanCare program went into effect Jan. 1, 2013, and replaced the Kansas Medicaid Program. KanCare offers 3 health plans to coordinate healthcare for their Medicaid beneficiaries.

AETNA BETTER HEALTH OF KANSAS
855-221-5656
SUNFLOWER STATE HEALTH PLAN
877-644-4623
UNITEDHEALTHCARE COMMUNITY PLAN-KANSAS
877-542-9238
Questions? Contact Kansas Medical Assistance Program Enrollment Center, or call 866-305-5147.

Questions to Ask Your Insurance Provider
When you're dealing with a health issue, the last thing you want to worry about is navigating your insurance policy. To help make your process a little easier, ask your insurance provider the following questions when you're choosing The University of Kansas Health System as your service provider.

What type of insurance plan do I have?
Is The University of Kansas Health System in my provider network?
If so, here are some follow-up questions to ask:
Does my insurance plan cover physician costs, as well as inpatient and outpatient hospital services?
Does my insurance plan cover prescription medications and chemotherapy medications?
What percentage of my bill does my insurance cover?
What, if any, are my copayments and/or deductible amounts?
If not, ask:
Does my plan offer access to The University of Kansas Health System through a national referral network?
Does my plan have out-of-network benefits? If so,
If I choose to go out-of-network, what percentage of my bill will be paid by the insurance company?
What do I have to pay?
Does my insurance plan offer any additional coverage through special networks for treating medical conditions such as cancer?
Does my policy have an out-of-pocket maximum? If so, ask:
If my out-of-pocket expenses reach the maximum, will my insurance carrier ever reimburse at 100%?
If so, does this mean my claims will then be paid in full, or will I still be responsible for the difference?
Before I see a doctor at The University of Kansas Health System, do I need a referral from my primary care physician? Will I need an authorization from my insurance carrier?
Will I be covered for any testing, pathology or radiology charges that may be incurred as part of my initial consultation with a doctor at The University of Kansas Health System?
Enroll 365 can help you choose a plan.

888-611-3816

Financial Assistance
The University of Kansas Health System offers a financial assistance program for the citizens of Kansas and other states as well.

Our program can assist patients, insured or uninsured, whose gross family income is from 0% to 300% of the federal poverty guidelines. The program further assists patients who owe the health system for medical bills that are equal to or exceed 50% of their gross family income.

Our financial counselors can help with cost or pricing estimates. Call 913-588-7850.

Our financial assistance policy
The University of Kansas Health System is a not-for-profit health system and part of the region's premier academic medical center. Our mission is to serve the people of Kansas, the region and the nation and enhance the health and wellness of the individuals, families and communities we serve. We are committed to providing emergency and medically necessary healthcare services to patients, regardless of their ability to pay.

For patients and patient guarantors with limited financial resources, the health system has established a financial assistance program to help those who qualify in paying for their medical care.

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE POLICY
SELF PAY COLLECTIONS
FINANCIAL CLEARANCE
ASISTENCIA FINANCIERA
COBROS DE PAGOS PARTICULARES
APROBACIÓN FINANCIERA
Proactive assistance
We have a proud tradition of supporting the community through financial assistance to patients and other types of contributions.

Our assistance guideline is the federal poverty level scale for family income. This allows us to provide discounts to the most deserving and help the underinsured. We will also help patients establish a payment plan and obtain any benefits for which they may qualify.

The University of Kansas Health System takes the initiative and makes every effort to meet with every patient before discharge to determine eligibility for financial assistance.

Financial assistance eligibility
Patients of the health system with annual family income equal to or less than 3 times the federal poverty level, and within asset-limit thresholds, may be eligible for financial assistance. For more information about current poverty guidelines, visit the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluations online.

Some of the program requirements are:

You must not qualify for other governmental assistance.
If you have a managed care plan, the health system must be a participating provider.
If the health system is not a participating provider, your insurance must agree to pay as if it were.
We will help you navigate the complex application process for Medicaid and other government programs. We will also assist you in securing any benefits for which you may qualify.

Types of financial assistance
Family income and assets will be considered when making an eligibility determination for financial assistance. Discounted care is available to patients with limited assets and family income less than 3 times the federal poverty level. Patients not meeting these eligibility guidelines, but with extraordinarily high medical expenses, may qualify for catastrophic care assistance.

Fees to uninsured patients
Patients with no insurance coverage will be granted a discount on health system bills for emergency and medically necessary care that is equal to that generally charged to insured patients.

Applying for financial assistance
There are different ways that a patient or family member can apply for financial assistance:

Download the application for financial assistance, fill out form and return by mail with supporting documentation. The list of required supporting documents can be found on the application and should be returned with the application.
English
Spanish
Request a financial assistance application by calling the Financial Counseling Team at 913-588-7850.
Begin the process by completing the financial assistance documentation in your MyChart account. Under Billing, choose Financial Assistance. Follow the prompts to add proof of income, expenses, assets and other information necessary to complete the process to receive financial help with healthcare bills.
The application should be completed with as much documentation and as much detail as possible to the following address:

The University of Kansas Health System
P.O. Box 958936
St Louis, MO 63195-8936

Once received, the application will be reviewed and the requestor will be notified if additional documentation is required. Otherwise, the requestor will receive written notice within 30 days of receipt of the application and required documentation.

Patients or persons responsible for paying patient bills may call 913-588-5820 with questions on this process or related to their bill.

Two women meeting.
Elevate Patient Financial Services
The University of Kansas Health System has partnered with Elevate Patient Financial Services (PFS) to help patients who may qualify for governmental financial assistance. Elevate PFS provides free, confidential guidance to our patients. When you work with Elevate PFS, they will help you apply for benefits you’re eligible to receive and support you through the entire process.

FIND OUT IF YOU'RE ELIGIBLE TODAY
For more information
Information on the health system's financial assistance policy is available upon request.

To request a complete financial assistance policy or a financial assistance application, or if you need assistance completing the application, contact our financial counseling team in patient financial services at 913-588-7850.

Related links

