Discrimination Policy
The University of Kansas Health System is committed to providing an environment that is physically and psychologically safe for everyone. We have zero tolerance for discrimination against any patient, visitor, provider or staff member in our health system community. This includes protection from any negative behavior against personal characteristics such as:

Age
Disability and genetic testing or information
Gender (including pregnancy, childbirth, and gender identity or expression or related medical conditions)
Height
Marital, civil union or domestic partnership status
Race, color, ancestry, citizenship stats, national origin and/or nationality
Religion and creed
Sexual orientation
Socioeconomic and un/employed status
Use of a service animal
Veteran status, including special disabled veterans and Vietnam-era veterans
Any other personal characteristics that could be used as a basis for negative treatment
The health system is committed to an environment where individuals are empowered to raise and discuss concerns openly and report problems without fear of retaliation.

Known direct or indirect acts of racism, sexism, discrimination, or bias of any kind from patients, employees and visitors within or on The University of Kansas Health System facility or property will not be tolerated. These acts will be investigated and addressed. Action will be taken to detect threats at the earliest possible moment and prevent or reduce the possibility of these acts.

Exceptions for patients with special requests
Some patients may have prior trauma, cultural or religious beliefs that support their requests for a different care team member. Examples include patients with a history of sexual, physical or emotional assault, or prior traumatic events.

This policy allows exceptions to grant the patient’s request if the patient’s health would be compromised by not accommodating the request. Patient requests for a care team member of a specific gender (as in the case of a female-identifying patient requesting a female physician/provider) are supported in the ambulatory setting when this may help foster a successful patient-provider professional relationship, and in those cases where a physician or provider with the requested gender and skills necessary for the patient’s care is available.