Health and Safety Protocols
The health system delivers high-quality primary, specialty, urgent and emergency care. We meet the needs of thousands of patients daily in person and by telehealth. And we are committed to keeping patients and their families safe.

As people return to normal activities after COVID-19, following safety practices is important to keep transmission rates at bay. This page answers common safety questions and provides information on the health system’s enhanced safety protocols.

Safety procedures FAQ
IS IT SAFE TO SCHEDULE AND HAVE MEDICAL VISITS AND SURGICAL PROCEDURES?
Yes. We adhere to guidelines designed to optimize safety for patients, visitors and staff.

We require masking when it is best for patient safety.
We practice physical distancing when appropriate.
We use appropriate personal protective equipment.
IS IT SAFE TO BE AT A HOSPITAL NOW?
Yes. The safety of our patients and staff is always our top priority. We always emphasize safety protocols and have implemented additional guidelines from the CDC and other public health authorities. We have deep experience in infection control and prevention for many contagious illnesses. These proven processes were in place before COVID-19 emerged and have been further strengthened. We are thoroughly committed to creating and maintaining a safe environment for patients and staff.

DO I NEED TO WEAR A MASK TO MY APPOINTMENT?
Masking is optional but recommended in most areas at the health system. Some areas require masking, such as those where immunocompromised patients receive care. Areas that require masking will be clearly marked.

Our staff will wear masks when it is best for patient safety. If you want members of your care team to wear masks, simply ask.

CAN A FAMILY MEMBER OR FRIEND COME WITH ME TO MY VISIT OR PROCEDURE?
Our visitor guidelines are designed with patient safety in mind. We review our visitor policy often and update it as needed to promote safety. Check for the latest updates on our visitor policy.

WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW ABOUT THE VISIT PROCESS?
Before your visit

2 days before your visit, you'll receive a phone call with an automated reminder message. You may also receive a text reminder.
The day before your visit, check yourself for any possible COVID-19 symptoms. If you have symptoms – most commonly, fever, cough or shortness of breath – notify your provider's office. It may be possible to transition your visit to a telehealth appointment.
If you do not have a MyChart patient portal account, we will help you sign up by phone. You may create an account online on your own.
The day of your visit

Please arrive – with ID, insurance card and copay – no more than 15 minutes before your appointment time, unless you’ve been instructed otherwise.
Before entering any building, sanitize your hands. Masking is optional, but some care areas may require a mask. Be prepared to wear a mask.
After your visit

If you did not discuss after-visit care during your appointment, a staff member will contact you by phone within 24 hours to review your after-visit summary and schedule any needed follow-up care.
The health system is dedicated to keeping patients, their families and the community safe. We consistently monitor CDC and OSHA guidelines to promote safety for all.

Find a doctor or explore appointment information.
Get the latest news and updates on COVID-19.
Listen to our Morning Medical Update to learn about current health events and advances in medicine.
