Patient Rights
We believe most patients want to understand and actively participate in their healthcare. We respect and value your role in making decisions about your health, and we are committed to protecting your rights as a patient.

What you can expect from us
The University of Kansas Health System is committed to respecting and protecting the rights of our patients. Honoring these rights is an important part of caring for you.

As an adult patient of the health system, you have access to these rights and are asked to uphold these responsibilities.

RIGHTS

Respectful care
Complete, correct and full information about your health and your care
Participation in your care decisions
Confidentiality
Security
Have a family member and/or personal representative and your own physician promptly notified when you are admitted to the hospital
Receive help completing an advance directive
If you already have an advance directive, you have the right to expect it to be followed by the physicians and hospital staff caring for you.
Be treated in the least restrictive way that preserves your safety and that of other patients and hospital staff
Expect hospital staff to be committed to pain prevention and management
Receive communication in a language you can understand
Consent to or refuse participation in any proposed research study without retribution or difference in the quality of your care
Be informed of available resources for resolving problems or questions you have about your care, including Patient Relations and the Ethics Committee
Examine your bill and receive an explanation of the charges, regardless of the source of payment for your care

RESPONSIBILITIES

Providing correct information about your symptoms, past illnesses, hospitalizations, medications and any other pertinent information
Asking questions until you fully understand your plan of care
Participating fully in decision-making about your plan of care. This includes telling your physicians and nurses about any obstacles you may encounter in continuing your plan of care after discharge.
Following your treatment plan
Following hospital rules, such as our no-smoking policy and visitor and noise-control guidelines
Showing respect to other patients, physicians and hospital staff
Choosing someone to speak for you in the event you cannot speak for yourself
Being fully involved in your discharge plan
Providing information necessary to process your bill
Promptly meeting any financial obligations
Consenting to a blood test if any healthcare worker should come in contact with your blood
We take patient safety very seriously and have a zero tolerance policy for violence. We will not tolerate violent or aggressive behavior of any kind, and will notify the police when necessary. We appreciate your cooperation and respect in helping us create a safe, healing environment.

If you are unable to exercise the rights listed here, your legal guardian, next of kin or legally authorized surrogate has the right to exercise these rights on your behalf. In certain circumstances, laws or regulations may authorize limitations upon your ability, or that of a surrogate, to exercise any of the rights listed here.


Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, requires healthcare professionals to protect privacy and create standards for electronic transfers of health data. The Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Health and Human Services will enforce the regulations and impose penalties on institutions that do not make a good-faith effort on privacy and security.

HIPAA came about because of the public's concern about how healthcare information was being used. HIPAA gives patients more control over their own health information. The University of Kansas Health System is taking steps to provide you with these patient rights, which include the right to:

Inspect and obtain a copy of your health information
Request that The University of Kansas Health System amend health information in your records
Receive an account of certain disclosures we have made of your health information
Request that we restrict the use and disclosure of your health information
Request how and where we may contact you about medical matters
Receive a written notice of how we may use your health information
HIPAA requires healthcare providers like The University of Kansas Health System to follow certain rules to protect the privacy of patients' health information. For instance, The University of Kansas Health System employees are not allowed to access information on patients unless they need the information to perform their jobs. Employees have received training on how to protect patient information, whether that information is spoken, on paper or kept in a computer.

The University of Kansas Health System is participating in this effort along with the majority of other healthcare providers in the United States. Compliance with the HIPAA privacy rule is important to continuing our tradition of patient confidentiality.

At The University of Kansas Health System, you have a right to privacy.

Questions or concerns about HIPAA? Contact Patient Relations, 913-588-1290.

Focus areas of HIPAA
Electronic Data Interchange
Security and electronic signature
Patient record privacy
Standard identifiers
Employer
Provider
Plan
Patient

Notice of Privacy Practices
The University of Kansas Health System is committed to protecting your medical information. This notice describes how your medical information may be used and disclosed. It also describes your rights pertaining to your medical information and how you can access your medical information.

Secure Email
For the privacy and protection of our patients and others we serve, The University of Kansas Health System uses a secure outbound email system. All outgoing email messages that may contain protected health information (PHI) are automatically encrypted for security.

Email messages can easily be intercepted and read by others. We protect your privacy and preserve confidentiality by sending potentially sensitive messages securely. Not only is this the right and appropriate thing to do for our patients, it's an important necessity to ensure compliance with the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Our email system meets HIPAA requirements by encrypting emails we send to you to ensure they're read by only you.

Accessing secure emails
Our Secure Messaging Portal is your solution for accessing, reading and responding to secure emails. You'll log in with your email address and a password. When a health system employee sends you a secure email, you'll receive a notification in your inbox.

Click the link in the notification message. You'll be prompted to log in to the Secure Messaging Portal. Follow these simple steps.

Enter your email address.
Click Next.
Enter your password.
Click Log In.
First-time users
The first time you receive an encrypted email from the health system, you'll also receive an email with details on accessing the Secure Messaging Portal. It will include the email address and a temporary password to use to log in. You'll be prompted to change your password during the first-time login process. You'll use your new password for future access.

Once you’ve entered the Secure Messaging Portal, you can read and respond to secure emails. By responding to email within the portal, and composing new messages there if needed, you can be assured you’re sending secure communications that keep private information private.

Thank you for working with us to uphold privacy and security.

Ethics and Professional Conduct
At The University of Kansas Health System, we are deeply committed to maintaining high ethical standards in every aspect of our business. Our corporate compliance program supports our commitment to following policies and standards of conduct that will ensure we are ethical and in compliance with federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations.

Our Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct discusses the principles that guide our behavior. We provide this resource for employees and independent contractors of the health system to guide the decisions they make about difficult legal and ethical situations.

To ask questions or report a violation
Call the Ethics Helpline at 844-527-0597.
All calls to the helpline are answered in person 24/7. The helpline is managed by a third-party vendor to ensure the caller may remain anonymous.
Complete a report online.
Call the chief compliance officer directly at 913-588-6632.
Find additional contact information in our Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct.
For additional resources for compliance questions and reporting issues or concerns, contact ComplianceResource@KUMC.edu.

Notice of nondiscrimination
The University of Kansas Health System complies with applicable Federal civil rights laws and does not discriminate on the basis of ethnicity, religion, culture, language, physical or mental disability, socioeconomic status, sexual orientation and gender identity or expression.